This is my design. I looked at electron atomic shells and how the dots on dice are ditributed and came up with this. Red line 2 pods Green triangle 3 pods Yellow square 4 pods Blue trapazoids 10 pods Pink circle 5 pods Purple rectangles 14 pods Low Speed -> Blue highest weight, then yellow, then green then red. Medium Speed -> Green highestweight, then red, then yellow, then blue. High speed -> Pink pods are exlcuded. Red highestweight, then blue, then green, then yellow. Very High Speed -> Pink pods & Purple pods are excluded. Green highest weight, then red, then blue. All yellow are excluded by the groupings of pink + purple



EXPLANATION || PROMPT


What will be done is instead of using your suggestion of spawning enemies based on the player's transform variables and using offsets and relative speeds. I'm going to do something more creative than that and achieve an even more controlled spawn system. I will be creating a duplicate of my UiFollowPlayer script that currently manages the player's ability to ensure it travels relative to the player. Instead the script will be renamed to EnemyPlacement. It will use the same logic as UiFollowPlayer but with the the parallax background as the target. That background follows the same logic as the camera but is marked isBackground and doesn't apply any of the lag settings. EnemyPlacement script will be placed on a parent gameobject that is positioned a little bit ahead of the background/camera bounds itself. EnemyPlacement will accept an array of transforms which will be populated by empty gameobjects that hold those transforms. These gameobjects will be arranged similar to an atom's atomic shell with a few tightly packed near the center of where the screen will be and more spread out in a similar pattern to an atomic shell. The EnemyPlacement script will be called by EnemySpawner and take over responsability for positioning enemies while EnemySpawner will remain in charge of determining and providing which enemies to spawn. The EnemyPlacement script will use a weighted switch statement to determine which transform the next spawn position should be returned/provided to EnemySpawner. The weight of the switch statement will be influecened by the player's speed. I will calculate a delta between the Player's position and the position of each spawn transform which I will now name spawn pods for ease of communication. The player's speed will be read and put into one of a few defined speed categories of specified ranges like slow, medium, fast, very fast || 0-30, 30-80, 80-150, 150-300. The EnemyPlacement will use the categories as a mulitplier modifier for rebalancing the weight of the position switch statement. Only when a speed value that would break into a new category is read will that category be changed, otherwise the EnemyPlacement will ignore readings that fall within the current category and use it in the weight calculations. At lower speeds the spawn pods in the outermost shell will carry the most weight to provide a wide distribution of spawn locations. At moderate speeds the middle spawn pod shells will be weighted heavier at enemies are likely to be skipped entirely if spawned at the extremes of close to the top and bottom of the screen. At high speeds spawn pods that are closer to the camera are weighted lighter to length the average response time for the player as they will be positioned physicall closer to the right edge of the screen when exceeding the speed limit. Finally, the enemies will be spawned as child objects of their spawn pod. Each spawn pod will have a built in cooldown alongside a collider check to prevent pil-up spawns similar to the draw overlap box logic in the item and previous enemy spawner. Because the enemies will be child objects of a child object of an object that functionally moves with the player the enemies movement will be easily set to low values that translate them leftwards. Enemies will not use physics to move, they will translate leftwords until they hit the massive pillar that kills enemies on contact that exists about 100 units behind the camera. These pillars exist -100/+100 units from the camera and have their own movement scripts to follow the camera movement. This design was chosen in favor of a despawnign system built into the enemy spawner. When the camera moves an enemy, evenutally the pillar will catch up and destroy them. Any enemies that still exist in the scene that are between either pillar are either destroyed by the center pillar which is the width of the left to right pillar. The center pillar is enabled for a moment when the player becomes stopped to clear out any enemies that the previous two pillars missed. Even after that each enemy has a script on it that kills it after 60 seconds.